# Brain-Tumor-Segmentation-Using-Deep-Learning
### Abstract
Brain tumor segmentation has been one of the most critical topics ever due to the danger it imposes on an individual’s life. As with any other disease, the earlier it is diagnosed, the better the prophylactic measures that can be taken. Applying such a model would allow for a quick glance at the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to produce a decision. This would, in turn, reduce time within the decision-making process, allowing for more accurate and precise decisions helping doctors save more patients’ lives. This paper discusses various deep learning techniques by which tumor segmentation could occur, including convolutional neural networks (CNN), enhanced convolutional neural networks (ECNN), and EnsembleNet. 

Keywords: Segmentation, Brain Tumor, MRI, CNN, ECNN, EnsembleNet, Deep Learning.

### Introduction
“A brain tumor is an abnormal growth or mass of cells in or around your brain”. (Cleveland Clinic, 2022) Tumors are divided into malignant (cancerous) and benign (non-cancerous), where about one-third of the brain tumors are malignant. However, in both cases, it affects the functions of the brain and one’s health if it grows large, pressing on surrounding nerves, blood vessels, and tissues. (Cleveland Clinic, 2022) This, in turn, gives rise to the importance of identifying a brain tumor early on to avoid its complications. Deep learning techniques have been introduced to produce quicker segmentation, providing more accurate and robust outputs. This paper aims to survey the different techniques present to solve the segmentation problem, develop the best model to carry the problem further and update the model to achieve better results. The motivation behind this is to reduce the time taken to produce an accurate diagnosis free from human error. Hence, this model takes the MRI images as an input (Figure 1) and outputs the MRI with the colorated tumor region (Figure 2). (Cleveland Clinic, 2022)
